docs: add kb on how to restrict new sql connections in wrd (#1846)
telerik/reporting-docs: knowledge-base/disable-build-new-data-connections-wrd.md

---
title: How to Disable "Build new data connections" in the SqlDataSource Wizard of the Web Report Designer
description: Learn how to restrict the "Build new data connections" option in the "Choose data connection" window of the SqlDataSource wizard of the Web Report Designer while allowing users to select from existing data connections.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Disable "Build New Data Connections" in Web Report Designer
meta_title: How to Disable "Build New Data Connections" in Web Report Designer
slug: restricting-build-new-data-connections-report-designer
tags: reporting, reportdesigner, datasource, connections, middleware
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td> Product </td>
            <td> Reporting </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td> Version </td>
            <td> 19.2.25.1001 </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

> I need to prevent users from creating new database connections in the Web Report Designer's SqlDataSource component while still allowing them to select from pre-configured existing connections.

Reviewer: As you use "SqlDataSource" in the article's metadata, go for "SQL DataSource" in the article's body - this allows you to optimize the article for both writing styles.
```suggestion
I need to prevent users from creating new database connections in the Web Report Designer's SQL DataSource component while still allowing them to select from pre-configured existing connections.
```

## Solution

> To achieve this behavior, use a middleware to intercept the `/api/reportdesigner/connectionspermissions` request and modify the response. By returning an empty JSON or an object with all values set to `false`, you can disable the "Build new data connections" option.

Reviewer: "To achieve this behavior" is quick and reusable for any KB, but not specific enough, especially for articles with limited textual content. Describing the goal lets you use a few more words that crawlers will read and optimize their search results for.
```suggestion
To stop users from creating new SQL database connections, use a middleware to intercept the `/api/reportdesigner/connectionspermissions` request and modify the response. By returning an empty JSON or an object with all values set to `false`, you can disable the "Build new data connections" option.
```
